2E 440 - Warlord Rising - Engine Year: 3360
Warlord Attrebus pushing the Akaviri out of Cyrodiil (Cyrodiil civil war between tsaesci and attrebus), Skyrim Civil war (west vs east), High Rock, Elsweyr and Valenwood falling apart, last days of the Bretons and Redguard invading/besieging Orsinium (at location of 1st Orsinium), orc chiefdom starting in Falkreath

Cyrodiil: locked in a civil war between Attrebus and the Council on one side and the tsaesci loyalist on the other. if attrebus wins he has three options: 
- abdicate and become duke of smth, the imperial commune takes over
- stays king till his death, then imperial commune takes over
- goes full pretender and tries to establish himself as the new ruler of cyrodiil

If the Tsaesci loyalists win, a new potentate is taking over cyrodiil only.


High Rock:
The Breton Province has already dissolved into minor kingdoms, largest ones being wayrest, daggerfall, evermore and schornhelm + various smaller factions. The breton kingdoms are besieging Orsinium. While many smaller vassals push for independence against their breton lieges, claiming that their vassal contracts were only valid under imperial law.

The former imperial governour stayed in High Rock and consolidated a kingdom for himself, he died 3 years ago. His daughter rules ever since.


Redguards:
Hammerfell is still a high kingdom, barely lost any territory yet. they also besiege Orsinium.
The High Kingdom is graduetly loosing land in the east and south - the Abecean isles and Hews Bane became independent, the former under various pirate factions, the latter a republic criminals posing as "noble" houses.


Orsinium/Wrothgar:
Most of their baronies/counties in enemy hands. very hard/impossible to win.
The Reachfolk in the eastern parts of Wrothgar stand ready to reclaim their homeland (less under their control than in 450/3370)


Skyrim:
West Skyrim vs East Skyrim in a civil war. “historically” it ends in a truce. (and the Skyrim fanpeople get their West vs East civil war)
The Jarl of the Reach is isolated in Markarth, surrounded by the native reachfolk tribes which have risen up in revolution.
In Falkreath, first refugees of Orsinium try to take the Hold.

Morrowind: stays as it is, might be invading black marsh as that isn’t protected by the empire anymore (see 3370)

Black Marsh: dissolved into small tribes (see 3370)
Two Imperial Holdouts:
- Gideon, adjacent to Cyrodiil, stays out of the Civil war
- Black Rose or Lilmoth, isolated, sees themselves surrounded by the native argonian tribes

Elsweyr: the confederacy dissolves into Anequina and pelletine and soon even smaller factions (see 3370)

Valenwood: Multiple Camoran Cadet Branches rise up in revolution, trying to take the throne from the Camoran King of Valenwood.

Alinor: see 3370




2E 7xx - High Rock Witch-Kings
Info Dump on Witch-Kings
---
Richton rose quickly through the ranks, commanding a squadron in the Battle of the Bjoulsae where Wayrest's naval power was crushed in a surprise dawn attack. He succeeded Vasi Hadrach as Admiral upon that officer's assassination at the hands of rebel Reachmen in a brothel in Daggerfall.
Redguard.com on Amiel Richton
He has made Wayrest his port of late, playing the lesser lords of High Rock to his benefit. Though the Empire has solidified the Bretons, there is still a lot of money to be made in the drawing of borders before the provincial laws dry completely.
Redguard.com on S'rathra
[Cyrus:] Tiber Septim, the colossus of our generation, Tamriel's new self-proclaimed emperor. What's your take?
[Krissandra:] The Empire's expansion has proceeded according to the merits of the Emperor's servants. By all accounts, Septim's governor in High Rock has ended the feuding of the witch-kings there with tact and skill. The Emperor's representative here in Stros M'Kai is not of the same caliber, and the Emperor is viewed dimly as a result.
Dialogue with Krissandra (by "Septim's governor" I assumed she meant Titus Alorius, Provisional Governor of the Western Reach, since he's mentioned in Pocket Guide)
[Cyrus:] He's [S'rathra] moved from the throneseekers of the old Empire to the lesser lords of High Rock, still playing them to his benefit, raking in the gold on all fronts.
[Tobias:] I thought that Septim had solidified the Bretons.
[Cyrus:] As much as the Witchmen will, but there is still a lot of money to be made in the drawing of borders before the provincial laws dry completely.
Dialogue with Tobias (really funny how the website mostly recycles this, but I note that Cyrus specifically uses the word "Witchmen" here which PGE says applies specifically to Reachmen)
---
In my native High Rock, traditions dating back to the witch kings and nomadic horsemen mandate cremation of the dead. This is practiced almost without exception in the north, through an Imperial burial in a tomb or city cemetery is more common in the south.
---
"By all accounts, Septim's governor in High Rock has ended the feuding of the witch-kings there with tact and skill.
https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Redguard:Krisandra
---
During the Tiber Wars, a Nord-Breton alliance captured Sancre Tor in 2E 852. General Talos recaptured the city and integrated the Nordic forces, impressed by his thu'um, into his own army.[BK 28] He executed the Breton leadership, and variously executed, enslaved, and sent the Breton forces back to High Rock.[BK 43] Those Bretons who remained sought to counter Talos with Reach-magic, and in 2E 584 , entrusted a Reachman to assassinate Cuhlecain and his general. Talos survived the attack, and went on to found the Third Empire[BK 28]—though The Arcturian Heresy claims Talos himself slew Cuhlecain, and placed the blame on his enemies.[BK 44]

At some point in their history, the Bretons were ruled by witch-kings.[BK 45] Talos, now known as Tiber Septim, would easily conquer the squabbling Breton kingdoms, but would find it impossible to truly squash the sectarian conflicts between them that hampered trade and prosperity.[BK 1][BK 21] Septim opted to entrust a governor of his choosing to end the feud between High Rock's witch-kings, which was a successful endeavor.[19]